doc: clarify C99 constraints and portability assumptions in develop.txt (#17748)
vim/vim: runtime/doc/develop.txt

What has been implemented is to count words that have been seen during
displaying.  A hashtable is used to quickly find the word count.  The count is
initialized from words listed in COMMON items in the affix file, so that it
also works when starting a new file.

This isn't ideal, because the longer Vim is running the higher the counts
become.  But in practice it is a noticeable improvement over not using the word
count.

==============================================================================
3. Assumptions						*design-assumptions*

The following sections define the portability and compatibility constraints that
all Vim code and build tools must adhere to.

MAKEFILES					*assumptions-makefiles*
						*POSIX.1-2001*

The Makefiles target maximum portability, relying solely on features
defined in POSIX.1-2001 `make` and ignoring later POSIX standards or
GNU/BSD extensions.  In practical terms, avoid:

	– % pattern rules
	– modern assignment (`:=`, `::=`) outside POSIX.1-2001
	– special targets (`.ONESHELL`, `.NOTPARALLEL`, `.SILENT`, …)
	– order-only prerequisites (`|`) or automatic directory creation

> 	– GNU/BSD conditionals (`ifdef`, `ifndef`, `.for`/`.endfor`, …)

Reviewer: Although I do not track which Makefiles are actually used during build, some of them utilize features e.g.

https://github.com/vim/vim/blob/0d9160e11ce4b921adff1e5621dd989ce96fb0f3/nsis/Makefile#L10-L12
https://github.com/vim/vim/blob/0d9160e11ce4b921adff1e5621dd989ce96fb0f3/src/GvimExt/Make_ming.mak#L33-L35
https://github.com/vim/vim/blob/0d9160e11ce4b921adff1e5621dd989ce96fb0f3/src/Make_cyg_ming.mak#L230-L232
https://github.com/vim/vim/blob/0d9160e11ce4b921adff1e5621dd989ce96fb0f3/src/Make_cyg_ming.mak#L1271

Are the features allowed under specific build environment?

Author: Good point, all those Makefiles will be using `GNU make` in the end I think.

Author: Iʼve added nuance to the paragraph. Thanks.

The choice made is to use the second mechanism and use a separate file.  This
way a user with sufficient memory can get very good suggestions while a user
who is short of memory or just wants the spell checking and no suggestions
doesn't use so much memory.

Word frequency

For sorting suggestions it helps to know which words are common.  In theory we
could store a word frequency with the word in the dictionary.  However, this
requires storing a count per word.  That degrades word tree compression a lot.
And maintaining the word frequency for all languages will be a heavy task.
Also, it would be nice to prefer words that are already in the text.  This way
the words that appear in the specific text are preferred for suggestions.

What has been implemented is to count words that have been seen during
displaying.  A hashtable is used to quickly find the word count.  The count is
initialized from words listed in COMMON items in the affix file, so that it
also works when starting a new file.

This isn't ideal, because the longer Vim is running the higher the counts
become.  But in practice it is a noticeable improvement over not using the word

> count.

Reviewer 2: so this is just moving text, no  real changes here.

Author: Yes, appart from moving around sections, the changes in content are only in `MAKEFILES` and `C COMPILER`.

==============================================================================
3. Assumptions						*design-assumptions*

The following sections define the portability and compatibility constraints that
all Vim code and build tools must adhere to.

MAKEFILES					*assumptions-makefiles*
						*POSIX.1-2001*

> Our Makefiles target maximum portability, relying solely on features

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The Makefiles target maximum portability, relying solely on features
```

I know this matches some of the existing style ("we"/"our") but I'd change those as well.

defined in POSIX.1-2001 `make` and ignoring later POSIX standards or
GNU/BSD extensions.  In practical terms, avoid:

	– % pattern rules
	– modern assignment (`:=`, `::=`) outside POSIX.1-2001
	– special targets (`.ONESHELL`, `.NOTPARALLEL`, `.SILENT`, …)
	– order-only prerequisites (`|`) or automatic directory creation
	– GNU/BSD conditionals (`ifdef`, `ifndef`, `.for`/`.endfor`, …)

Since POSIX.1-2001 supports only traditional suffix rules, every object
built in a separate directory must have an explicit rule.  For example:

	objects/evalbuffer.o: evalbuffer.c
		$(CCC) -o $@ evalbuffer.c

This verbosity ensures that the same Makefile builds Vim unchanged with
the default `make` on Linux, *BSD, macOS, Solaris, AIX, HP-UX and virtually

> any Unix-like OS.

Reviewer 2: nice

C COMPILER					*assumptions-C-compiler*
						*ANSI-C* *C89* *C99*

We require a mostly C99 compliant C compiler.  Because not all maintained
compilers fully implement C99, we use only a subset and explicitly forbid

> certain features.  This will gradually be adjusted over time.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Vim requires a mostly C99 compliant C compiler.  Because not all maintained compilers fully implement C99, use of certain features is forbidden.  These restrictions will be adjusted over time.
```

Features not to be used ~

These C99 features are not to be used, because MSVC 2015 (in Vim CI, extended

> support until October 14, 2025) does not support them:

Reviewer 4: @chrisbra 
Does Vim support the OpenVMS C compilers listed in the following links?

https://github.com/vim/vim/pull/16962#issuecomment-2748278248
> OpenVMS version - x86_64
> Compiler: VSI C x86-64 V7.5-009 (GEM 50XBR) on OpenVMS x86_64 V9.2-2
> 
> OpenVMS version - VAX
> Compiler: Compaq C V6.4-005 on OpenVMS VAX V7.3
> 
> OpenVMS version - Alpha
> Compiler: Compaq C V6.5-001 on OpenVMS Alpha V7.3

None of the three seem to be fully C99 compliant.
The VAX version in particular is quite old, with the last release being in 2001.

Reviewer 2: I am not sure which one @arpadffy is using in particular. However we should not break the ones that are still in use (unless there is an alternative available)

Reviewer 4: Hmm, not being able to use newer C standard features just to support these old compilers is a real drawback. It might not be the right time yet, but I believe we should consider eventually dropping support for them.

Author: Among the three, it seems that only `VSI C on OpenVMS x86-64` is currently maintained.

	– Variable Length Arrays;
	– `_Complex`;

> 	– Designated Initializers.

Reviewer 2: you dropped the `inline` and C99 `_Bool`. 

Perhaps you can add a sentence like this:
> "In the future, we may gradually adopt more C99 features—for example, by increasingly using _Bool—to assess whether these features are supported on all our target platforms."

Author: I removed `inline` and `_Bool` from the list of forbidden C99 features. I also removed `flexible array members`.
On the contrary I added `designated initializers` since they are not supported by MSVC 2015.

Reviewer 5: I am never a person to say we should use the latest features in compilers for production use, but I think that more than 25 years after C99 was introduced, we should be able to use it completely. If some compiler doesn't support some of this, it simply is not a C compiler by any practical definition. We should not pander to such not-C-compilers. Not even (especially not) if they are from MS.
(This opinion from the person who put deliberate code in the BeOS GUI of Vim so that it would only run on PowerPC cpus and not on Intel cpus)

all Vim code and build tools must adhere to.

MAKEFILES					*assumptions-makefiles*
						*POSIX.1-2001*

Vim’s main Makefiles target maximum portability, relying solely on features
defined in POSIX.1-2001 `make` and ignoring later POSIX standards or
GNU/BSD extensions.  In practical terms, avoid:

	– % pattern rules
	– modern assignment (`:=`, `::=`) outside POSIX.1-2001
	– special targets (`.ONESHELL`, `.NOTPARALLEL`, `.SILENT`, …)
	– order-only prerequisites (`|`) or automatic directory creation
	– GNU/BSD conditionals (`ifdef`, `ifndef`, `.for`/`.endfor`, …)

Since POSIX.1-2001 supports only traditional suffix rules, every object
built in a separate directory must have an explicit rule.  For example:

	objects/evalbuffer.o: evalbuffer.c
		$(CCC) -o $@ evalbuffer.c

This verbosity ensures that the same Makefile builds Vim unchanged with
the default `make` on Linux, *BSD, macOS, Solaris, AIX, HP-UX and virtually
any Unix-like OS.

Some platform-specific Makefiles (e.g., for Windows, NSIS, or Cygwin) may
use more advanced features when compatibility with basic make is not
required.

C COMPILER					*assumptions-C-compiler*
						*ANSI-C* *C89* *C99*

> Vim requires a mostly C99 compliant C compiler.  Because not all maintained compilers fully implement C99, use of certain features is forbidden.  These restrictions will be adjusted over time.

Reviewer 2: overlong line.
